---
title: "My IndieWeb Setup"
date: "2015-01-09"
categories: 
  - "journal"
  - "programming"
tags: 
  - "indieweb"
  - "my-website"
  - "php"
  - "wordpress"
---

Please note: This is now out of date somewhat

This post is an outline of my IndieWeb setup. I describe some of the key plugins I have installed as well as third party services I use. All of which play nicely together for the IndieWeb.Built with WordPressMy personal site is built using WordPress and is a completely custom-built theme. WordPress?—?with its plethora of plugins and diverse, active community?—?provides one of the best platforms from which to build an IndieWeb site today - outside of rolling your own. When I first heard about the IndieWeb and found myself wanting to implement its principles on my own site, I went ahead and installed a plugin I was recommended?—?the IndieWeb Plugin?—?which links to a collection of other plugins that implement certain functionality to tie into those IndieWeb principles.Plugins I have installedYou don't have to limit yourself to only the plugins I list here?—?I have just listed the ones that I myself have in use in regards to IndieWeb.IndieWeb PluginThis plugin, once installed, provides links to the recommended IndieWeb plugins?—?some of which I have listed below?—?that will help bring you into the IndieWeb. I have also provided direct links to the plugins themselves, or you can search in your admin area's new plugin interface. I haven't described them all yet as I am not 100% on what some of them do. As I gain an understanding of others I use, I will include them below. The ones that I have described below are the ones I actively use and understand what they do for me. Download the IndieWeb PluginNextScripts : Social Networks Auto-PosterThis is a great plugin for easily syndicating content out to many third-party silos. I use a custom fork of it with editsThe plugin creators have very kindly added in my code edits to allow twitter replies that create those tweets as replies within the Twitter timeline. Social Networks Auto-Poster?—?or SNAP for short?—?has a flexible way in which to template how and what to share to each silo when posting your content. For example in a small note you may send the full text content only, however for an article you have written you may want to send the post title and permalink. Download the SNAP PluginRel-Syndication for WordPressThis plugin works beautifully with the Social Networks Auto-Poster plugin. It will grab the SNAP plugin's syndication data for a post, and append a list of links to that post's content. It will also include the necessary microformats2 meta data in the links of those syndicated copies. Download Rel-Syndication for WordPressWordPress Webmention PluginThis sets up webmention support on the site. It allows me to receive webmentions and automagically creates them as comments to those posts. It will also parse the post content for posts I write for any links contained within, and send webmentions to those links. Download WordPress Webmention pluginIndieWeb Custom TaxonomyThis plugin adds an extra semantic layer to posts. It allows you to categorize your posts as being one of the following: "Bookmark", "Favorite", "Like", "Reply", "Repost" and "RSVP". All of which are actions that are found on social networks. It also allows you to save a URL to which you may be replying to. The plugin will then pull in that URL to give a preview of the link with the post content. This shows the context to which your post content may be replying to. Download the IndieWeb Custom Taxonomy PluginWordPress Semantic LinkbacksWhen you receive webmentions\* from a site?—?or from Bridgy if you use that (see below)?—?then those comments are added to the site. What the semantic linkbacks plugin does is generate semantic comments using microformats2. \*Please Note: you will need to have the WordPress Webmention plugin installed for this plugin to recognize Webmentions. See above. Download the Semantic Linkbacks pluginOther Tools I useBridgyBridgy is absolutely bloody fantastic. It is a web app built by Ryan Barrett and automatically polls a number of third-party silos?—?whichever ones you choose to connect?—?and pulls in any links to your website and any new responses to posts you have sent. Once it pulls in links and responses, it will send them over to your website as webmentions. The WordPress Webmention Plugin?—?mentioned above?—?knows exactly what to do with them. There are a couple of configurations that you may need to do also?—?at least these are what I needed to do. Firstly when bridgy finds replies to a tweet that originated from your site it will need to know where that original link is on your website. For example if you just sent twitter a note with no links back, bridgy will need to look on your site for that original message. But how does it know where the post is? It looks for the post that has, within it's h-entry markup, the syndication link to that twitter copy. If you are using the Rel-Syndication Plugin for WordPress, then your content should already have the syndication links appended to them. One thing I had to also do was to add a "feed" meta link into my site's header, in order to tell bridgy where those links could be found on my site (as they were not on my homepage at the time). And that's my IndieWeb setup. Like I said before, there are some other plugins that were recommended from the IndieWeb plugin. However I have not included these here as I am not yet confident in describing those just yet. Any questions about this setup or any other IndieWeb queries please ask. I'll do my best to help.
